### Theory
 <h3>Principle:</h3>
                    A blockchain is a tamper-evident, shared digital ledger that records transactions in a public or private peer-to-peer network. Distributed to all member nodes in the network, the ledger permanently records, in a sequential chain of cryptographic hash-linked blocks, the history of asset exchanges that take place between the peers in the network. Blockchain is a type of distributed ledger comprising of information in form of digitally recorded “Blocks”.
                    <br>
                   <br>
                    <h3>Elements of blockchain: </h3>
                    <h4>Open Ledger and Distributed Ledger</h4>It is "an open, distributed ledger that can record transactions between two parties efficiently and in a verifiable and permanent way". For use as a distributed ledger, a blockchain is typically managed by a peer-to-peer network collectively adhering to a protocol for inter-node communication and validating new blocks.
                    <h4>Mining</h4>Miners validate new transactions and record them on the global ledger ( blockchain ). On average, a block ( the structure containing transations ) is mined every 10 minutes. Miners compete to solve a difficult mathematical problem based on a cryptographic hash algorithm. The solution found is called the Proof-Of-Work. This proof proves that a miner did spend a lot of time and resources to solve the problem. When a block is 'solved', the transactions contained are considered confirmed, and the bitcoin concerned in the transactions can be spend. So, if you receive some bitcoin on your wallet, it will take approximately 10 minutes for your transaction to be confirmed.
                    <h4>Smart Contract</h4>  While a standard contract outlines the terms of a relationship (usually one enforceable by law), a smart contract enforces a relationship with cryptographic code. Smart contracts are self-executing contracts with the terms of the agreement between buyer and seller being directly written into lines of code. The code and the agreements contained therein exist across a distributed, decentralized blockchain network. Smart contracts permit trusted transactions and agreements to be carried out among disparate, anonymous parties without the need for a central authority, legal system, or external enforcement mechanism. They render transactions traceable, transparent, and irreversible.
                     <h4>Consensus Model</h4> The consensus provides the technical infrastructure layer for blockchains. This makes it one of the most critical components when assessing real-world use cases
                     Consensus is key, because without a central authority, the participants must agree on the rules and how to apply them.
                     <h4>Ethereum Virtual Machine </h4> Ethereum is a programmable blockchain. Rather than giving users a set of predefined operations (e.g. bitcoin transactions), Ethereum allows users to create their own operations of any level of complexity. In this way, it serves as a platform for many different types of decentralized blockchain applications, including but not limited to cryptocurrencies.
                     <h4>Public & Private Blockchain </h4> In a Public Blockchain, anyone can read and write the data stored on the Blockchain as it is accessible to everyone in the world. It is completely decentralised as the permissions to read and write data onto the Blockchain are shared equally by all the connected users, who come to a consensus before any data is stored on the database.
                     In Private Blockchain the permissions to write data onto the Blockchain are controlled by one organisation which is highly trusted by the other users. This organisation may/may not allow users to have access to read the data, as public readability might not be necessary in most cases.
                     <br>
                     <h4>DAPPS: Decentralized Applications </h4>It's like a “decentralized appstore” where anyone can publish their unstoppable apps (dapps), which unlike today’s apps (think Gmail or Uber) don’t require a middleman to function or to manage a user’s information. Dapps connect users and providers directly. One example is to use this design for a decentralized Twitter that’s resistant to censorship. Once you publish a message to the blockchain, it can’t be erased, not even by the company that created the microblogging system.
                     <br><br>
                    
